.TH srslyd 8 "srslyd"
.SH NAME
.B srslyd
\ - SPF verification daemon with SRS support
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsrslyd\fR [\fIconfig_file\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBsrslyd\fR is a \fImilter\fR application that implements \fBSPF\fR
verifications and \fBSRS\fR address rewriting on email redirects.

.SH ARCHITECTURE

\fBsrslyd\fR runs in a master-slave process setup.  Most of the work performed
by srsly is done by the slave process, also referred to as the milter process
and called \fIsrsly-milter\fR by default.

Upon startup, \fBsrslyd\fR will become a daemon and fork a child process,
\fIsrsly-milter,\fR which will chroot to a pre-configured directory and then
drop privileges to a non-root user specified in the configuration file.  By
default, the unprivileged user is called \fIsrsly\fR and the chroot directory
is that user's home directory.  See \fIsrslyd.conf(5)\fR for details on these
and other configuration directives.  The child process will then become
responsible for handling communication with the SMTP server via the milter
library.  By default, \fIsrsly-milter\fR listens for connections on the
\fIlocalhost\fR address on port \fI8387.\fR
Master and slave processes are connected via a UNIX socket that
is used for inter-process communication.

The master process will monitor the milter process, restarting it in case it
unexpectedly exits, therefore acting as a supervisor.  It will also perform
actions that the milter process cannot perform:

.IP \(bu
Reload the configuration file and send the new settings to the slave;
.IP \(bu
Read the SRS secret file (see \fIsrslyd.conf(5)\fR for details) and send the
secret to the milter process;
.IP \(bu
Query Postfix's address maps to determine whether a message's MAIL FROM address
needs to be rewritten by SRS.  This requires access to Postfix's own UNIX
sockets and therefore cannot be done from within the milter process chroot
jail.  Therefore, the master process acts as a proxy for Postfix queries.  See
COMMUNICATION WITH POSTFIX for more information.

.SH OPERATION

\fBsrslyd\fR is controlled by the \fIsrsly(1)\fR command, which allows the
daemon to be started, stopped and reloaded, among other options.  See the man
page for more details.

The \fIsrsly-milter\fR process runs chrooted into an unprivileged user's home
directory, which must be prepared for use before the daemon can be started.
Once the user is created, its home directory must be populated with the files
below.  Here it is assumed that the unprivileged user is \fIsrsly\fR and that
its home directory is \fI/var/lib/srsly.\fR

.IP \(bu
\fI/var/lib/srsly/dev/log\fR
.IP \(bu
\fI/var/lib/srsly/etc/hosts\fR
.IP \(bu
\fI/var/lib/srsly/etc/resolv.conf\fR
.IP \(bu
\fI/var/lib/srsly/lib/libgcc_s.so.1\fR
.IP \(bu
\fI/var/lib/srsly/lib/libnss_dns*.so\fR
.IP \(bu
\fI/var/lib/srsly/lib/libresolv*.so\fR
.RS
.RE

These files can either be copied from the system files into the chroot
directory or mirrored there by some OS-specific mechanism such as bind mounts,
available on Linux.

To make Postfix query srsly when processing a message, simply add
\fIinet:localhost:8387\fR to the \fIsmtpd_milters\fR variable in the
appropriate \fIsmtpd\fR instances in your configuration, and reload Postfix.

.SH COMMUNICATION WITH POSTFIX

In order to decide if the MAIL FROM address needs to be rewritten, srsly needs
to determine if a message is a redirect.  The criteria used by to take that
decision is the following: a redirect message is one in which both the envelope
sender and evelope recipient are not local to the SMTP server.

To make that decision, \fBsrslyd\fR will connect to Postfix's \fIproxymap\fR
socket and query Postfix's databases using its internal communication
protocol.  So, in order to test if an email address is local, \fBsrslyd\fR
will recursively send queries via that socket until a final destination is
reached.  If that final destination matches a regular expression defined in
\fIsrslyd.conf(5),\fR the address will be considered local.

While the \fIproxymap\fR query protocol is well documented and unlikely to
change, \fBsrslyd\fR understands a number of configuration directives in the
\fIproxymap\fR section of its configuration file, namely
\fIquery_format\fR, \fIquery_flags\fR, \fIquery_socket\fR, \fIresult_format\fR
and \fIresult_value_separator\fR that allow one to change the way queries are
made and results are parsed.  This provides some flexibility against possible
changes in the query protocol, allowing srsly to adapt without changes to its
source code.  Please refer to \fIsrslyd.conf(5)\fR for details on the above
configuration directives.

.SH SEE ALSO
srsly(1), srslyd.conf(5)

.SH AUTHOR

srsly was written by Andre Nathan.
