.TH srsly-milter.conf 5 "srsly milter instance configuration file"

.SH NAME
.B srsly-milter.conf
\- Configuration file for \fIsrslyd(8)\fR milter instances

.SH SYNOPSYS
.B /etc/srsly/conf.d/*.conf

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIsrslyd(8)\fR supports multiple milter instances.  These are loaded from
configuration files from the directory defined in the \fIconfig_path\fR
configuration directive in the \fImilter\fR section of \fIsrslyd.conf(5)\fR,
which by default is "/etc/srsly/conf.d".  For each file whose name ends in
".conf" in this directory, a milter instance will be loaded.

The configuration syntax of milter instances is the same as the one used in
\fIsrslyd.conf(5)\fR. Please refer to that manual page for a complete
description.

.SS milter
This section configures milter-related parameters.

\fIlisten_address (string)\fR
Defines the listen address for the milter instance.  This parameter must follow
the syntax of milter socket specifications, as indicated below.
.TP
.IP \(bu
\fI{unix|local}:/path/to/file\fR
\(em a named pipe.
.IP \(bu
\fIinet:port@{hostname|ip-address}\fR
\(em an IPV4 socket.
.IP \(bu
\fIinet6:port@{hostname|ip-address}\fR
\(em an IPV6 socket.

.TP
\fIdebug_level (integer)\fR
Sets the milter debug level for this instance.  Must be an integer between 0
and 6.  Defaults to 0.

.SS spf
This section contains SPF-specific parameters.

.TP
\fIenable (boolean)\fR
Defines whether SPF checking is enabled for this milter instance.  Defaults to
true.

.TP
\fIfail_on_helo_temperror (boolean)\fR
Defines whether a DNS temporary error condition will result in an SPF error
response.  Defaults to true.

.TP
\fIlocal_whitelist (string list)\fR
Defines a list of local IP addresses for which SPF verification will not be run.
Defaults to ["127.0.0.0/8", "::ffff:127.0.0.0/104"].

.TP
\fIrelay_whitelist (string list)\fR
Defines a list of IP addresses of trusted relays for which SPF verification
will be skipped.  Defaults to [].

.TP
\fIresult_headers (string list)\fR
Defines which SPF result headers will be added to the message by srsly after
SPF verification.  This can be either "Authentication-Results", the older
"Received-SPF" or both.  Defaults to ["Authentication-Results"].

.SS srs
This section defines the SRS settings used by \fIsrslyd(8)\fR.

.TP
\fIenable (boolean)\fR
Defines whether SRS address rewriting is enabled for this milter instance.
Defaults to true.

.TP
\fIalways_rewrite (boolean)\fR
Force the rewrite of the MAIL FROM address in messages reaching this milter
instance.  This is useful for use with Postfix instances which run with the
sole purpose of handling redirect messages.  If this parameter is set to
true, the value of the `j' milter macro, which corresponds to the
\fI$myhostname\fR configuration variable in Postfix, will be used as the SRS
forward domain.

.SH FILES

.TP
\fI/etc/srsly/conf.d/*.conf\fR
Default location for milter instance configuration file.

.SH SEE ALSO
srsly(1), srslyd.conf(5), srslyd(8)

.SH AUTHOR

srsly was written by Andre Nathan.
