.TH srsly 1 "srsly"
.SH NAME
.B srsly
\ - \fIsrslyd(8)\fR control program.

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsrslyd\fR \fIcommand\fR [\fIconfig_file\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBsrsly\fR is a control command for the \fIsrslyd(8)\fR daemon.  It sends
commands via a UNIX socket whose path is defined in \fIsrslyd.conf(5)\fR.
The following actions are currently supported.

.IP \fBstart\fR 16
starts the srsly daemon.
.IP \fBstop\fR
stops the srsly daemon.
.IP \fBreload\fR
tells \fIsrslyd(8)\fR to re-read its configuration file.
.IP \fBrestart\fR
is equivalent to \fIstop\fR followed by \fIstart\fR.
.IP \fBnew-secret\fR
generates a new random SRS secret and outputs it to \fIstdout\fR.
.IP \fBreplace-secret\fR
replaces the current SRS secret by a new one.  The old secret is moved to a
different directory and will still be used when trying to SRS-reverse a
MAIL FROM address (see the \fIsecret_file\fR and \fIsecret_directory\fR
directives in \fIsrslyd.conf(5)\fR).
.IP \fBexpire\fR
removes expired SRS secrets from the configured \fIsecret_directory\fR.
Expired secrets are those whose files in \fIsecret_directory\fR have been
modified by more than \fIhash_max_age\fR days ago.  See \fIsrslyd.conf(5)\fR
for details no these configuration directives.  This command is usualy run
from a cron job.
.RS
.RE

All commands operate on the configuration file given as a second argument to
\fBsrsly\fR, which, if not given, defaults to \fI/etc/srsly/srslyd.conf\fR.

.SH FILES

.IP \fI/etc/srsly/srslyd.conf\fR
Default location of the \fIsrslyd(8)\fR configuration file.
.IP \fI/etc/srsly/srs_secret\fR
Default location of the SRS secret file.
.IP \fI/etc/srsly/srs_secrets.d\fR
Default location of the SRS old secrets directory.

.SH SEE ALSO
srslyd.conf(5), srslyd(8)

.SH AUTHOR

srsly was written by Andre Nathan.
